The Yakuza are dying. Jenz's are killing
them. Now, that sounds like a crazy
thing to say. The Yakuza are, after all,
one of the most infamous organized crime
groups in the world. So, how are they
being killed by a bunch of phone
scrolling, Tik Tok dancing kids, most of
whom have the attention span of a fish
and some haven't even finished high
school? Well, I wouldn't say the Gen Z's
are intentionally killing the Yakuza.
They are sort of doing it by accident
though at a time when the Yakuza are
already weak. So this isn't first-degree
murder but more like manslaughter. The
Yakuza's decline is evident from the
numbers. At its height in the 1960s, the
Yakuza had more than 180,000 members.
That number is down to less than 20,000
at this point and trending down still.
But to explain how this happened and
what Gen Z's have anything to do with
it, I need to reference the legal and
historical contacts that led up to this.
The Yakuza are Japan's most well-known
organized crime syndicates, similar in
function to the Italian mafia or the
Mexican cartels, but with their own
distinct cultural and operational
differences. For example, the Yakuza
have operated openly for much of their
existence. They register businesses,
maintain offices, and publish contact
information. Many Yakuza members even
carry business cards. They've also had a
mixed reputation in Japan. To some, they
seem like shiverous outlaws, groups
that, at least on the surface, protected
the weak, upheld local order, and lived
by strict moral codes. They even have a
history of helping out their community
at times of crisis, like how they helped
to deliver supplies and with other
disaster relief efforts during the 2011
earthquake and tsunami. This is probably
why Japanese societies have partly
tolerated their open operation for some
time, but there is no denying that they
do break the laws. Depending on the
Yakuza groups, they may profit from
extortion and lone sharking to scams and
political corruptions to drugs and human
trafficking to even assault and murder.
And as such, the Japanese government has
steadily increased its crackdown on the
Yakuza since the 1990s, passing laws
such as the 1992 anti-bodan law and
intensifying their enforcement over
time. Fast forward to today, most
businesses are now forbidden from
working with Yakuza altogether. This has
not only dried up many of Yakuza's
revenue streams, but also made life
practically difficult for Yakuza members
since they are blacklisted from
businesses. For example, it is nearly
impossible for Yakuza members to do
simple things like opening bank
accounts, renting apartments, or even
getting phone plans. These legal
crackdowns have significantly weakened
the Yakuza, but it's not the only reason
behind their decline. Along with this
intensification of legal pressure is a
shift in the economy of crime. If we
look at the Yakuza from a business
perspective, one of their long-standing
competitive advantages has been
violence. Now, in a stereotypical
society, only the government has legal
access to violence, and it presumably
uses it for things like maintaining
order, protecting borders, and so on.
Other members of society typically don't
have access to violence. Businesses, for
instance, can compete in all sorts of
ways. Better products, cheaper services,
clever marketing, but they can't
physically attack each other. They can't
use violence. But the Yakuza can and
that allows them access to business
models and markets that normal business
don't. They can go into things like
illegal gambling and prostitutions and
lone sharking and other black markets
because they can use physical force.
That has its own risks of course, but
all things considered, having access to
violence has traditionally been quite
profitable for the Yakuza. But the world
has changed. We've now entered the
digital age and what's called the
knowledgebased economy. The most
valuable assets today aren't physical.
Rather, they are intangible like
information, ideas, patent, data,
attention, and code. This shift has a
profound effect on the economic value of
violence because violence can arrange
atoms but not bits and as such it has
virtually no direct effects in the
digital realm. And as it happens, the
types of crimes that are most profitable
in the digital economies are
increasingly virtual rather than
physical. Back in the day, you used to
be able to punch people in the face and
take their wallets, and that used to be
profitable. But if you do that today,
you'll probably just get a bunch of
credit cards that will be locked the
moment they are reported missing, and
maybe a phone that you can't use without
Face ID. Crimes like fishing scams,
crypto fraud, online identity theft,
ransomware attacks are becoming more
profitable than robbing people at
gunpoints. Hacking into a bank, for
example, is more profitable now than
robbing the bank because the most
valuable things are now stored in the
bank's servers rather than its faults.
And in this new economy, violence
doesn't scale very well and it loses its
edge by the days as the world continues
to digitize. So, in many ways, the
Yakuza has been playing catch-up with
the time to either scale their existing
digital operations or venture into new
ones. However, it's not an easy pivot
for an organization built on physical
violence to start relying on business
models of crime where violence isn't as
much of a leverage. So, it's fair to say
that the Yakuza are on the ropes. The
law is squeezing them out of society and
the economy has shifted from under their
feet. They should have their hands full
at this point, but there's one more
problem. The Gen Z's. This is unexpected
perhaps, but consequential nonetheless.
In fact, Jenz's could very well be the
one to put the final nail in their
coffin. The problem with Gen Z's is
regarding recruitment. Because for the
life of them, the Yakuza can't seem to
figure out a way to get this next
generation of young criminals to join
them. This is not just a PR issue. It's
an existential threat. Because for any
criminal organization to survive, it
needs young people who are the muscles
that do the dirty work in the short term
and carry out the legacy in the long
term. But that's not happening right
now. So much so that the Yakuza are in
the process of aging into extinction.
More than half of the Yakuza are older
than 50 years old at this point with an
average age of 54 as of 2023 and only
about 5.4% of Yakuza members are
currently in their 20s. Now, there are
reasons why people in general are less
interested in joining the Yakuza today
based on what we've discussed so far.
For example, we mentioned that the
Yakuza are heavily targeted by the
government. to join the Yakuza is to be
subjected to the same fate and it's
understandable why people don't want
that. We also mentioned the dwelling
value of violence in the digital economy
of crimes. Therefore, there's less
appeal to join the Yakuza in order to
get access to violence because violence
is not that necessary to commit digital
crime. But these reasons apply to
everyone. There is a reason, however,
that's uniquely relevant to Gen Z's
disinterest in joining the Yakuza, and
that has to do with culture. Japanese
Gen Z's, like those of most parts of the
developed world, are digital natives.
They're very much used to having
information and digital extensions of
themselves online that are instantly
accessible through the devices in their
pockets. Most of them probably got their
Instagram accounts before their driver's
license. And as such, one can say that
they are raised partly by the Japanese
cultural environment, but also partly by
the internet. As a result, they are a
little different from their older
generational counterparts. For example,
they are more individualistic and value
autonomy and flexibility. This marks a
clear contrast with traditional aspects
of Japanese culture that are more
collectivistic and value group harmony,
social cohesion, and established social
norm. This contrast creates a
generational tension that's observable
across many aspects of Japanese society,
but is especially pronounced in the
world of crime. This is because the
Yakuza is deeply rooted in traditional
Japanese culture. It is collectivistic
where each member is expected to have
absolute loyalty to the group and put
the well-being of the Yakuza
organization above their own. It also
has a strict hierarchy and expects total
obedience to superiors and suppresses
individuality. But that's an environment
the Gen Z's find suffocating. This
includes the Gen Z's criminals. These
young criminals want to assert their
individuality. They want to express
themselves and their opinions, but they
can't do that if they join the Yakuza.
Many of them are also more
entrepreneurial and want the freedom to
experiment and make mistakes and learn
from them. But a Yakuza demands
perfection and hates mistakes. There's
even a ritual called Yubitsume where you
cut off your fingers as an apology for
making serious mistakes. Jenz's probably
like their fingers as much as anyone, so
they're not super stoked about that. And
above all, Gen Z criminals want to
commit crimes and they want to do it
right away. In the Yakuza, new members
are typically required to endure long
periods of low status apprenticeships
during which they perform mostly menial
tasks. So if Genz's join the Yakuza,
they'll probably be bowing 20 times a
day and serving tea for years before
they can begin to contribute to real
criminal projects in any significant
ways. For a generation that are used to
instant gratification, this is probably
too long of a wait for their attention
span to handle. Additionally, unlike the
Yakuza who have to play catch-up with
the digital economy, Jazz's are born
into it. What feels foreign to the
Yakuza feels just like home to the Gen
Z's. So instead of joining the Yakuza
and help them catch up, Jenz's probably
prefers the faster route of just doing
it themselves. They're thinking, you
know, why would I need the Yakuza? I
have a smartphone and I've got Wi-Fi at
home. The Chat GPD subscription is only
20 bucks and Deep Seek is free. If I
want to commit digital crimes, I'd
rather do it with my college roommates
than with these old people who just want
to cut all my fingers every time I code
doesn't work. Now, it's not like Gen Z
criminals all operate alone. They still
commit organized crimes, but the way
they organize is completely different.
There's a new term coined by Japan's
National Police Agency called Tokuro. It
describes a new kind of organized
criminal phenomenon that started
happening in the last few years. It
consists mostly of young people and
seems to be feeling the power vacuum
left behind by the declining Yakuza. The
word tooku combines tokome which means
anonymous and riodo which means fluid.
And that name is quite fitting. The
Tokyo groups have no rigid hierarchy, no
lifelong loyalty, no rituals. Many of
their members don't even know each
other. Instead, they're recruited for
specific jobs or tasks on an ad hoc
basis, almost like gig economy, but for
crime. Tooko recruit mostly online and
operate through encrypted messaging apps
and social media platforms. This allows
a degree of flexibility in their
structure and some anonymity for their
members that make them quite elusive to
law enforcement. And it's easy to see
why Gen Z criminals prefer the Tokuro
over the Yakuza. In fact, Tokuro's
recruitment pitch is so on brand for the
Gen Z stereotype that it almost looks
like a parody. No rules, no commitment,
no delayed gratification. It just sign
up online, show up, do the thing, get
paid, and [__] off. It's almost like you
can just Uber Eat, Tinder Swipe, and Tik
Tok scroll your way through a career in
crime. Now, in case this is starting to
sound like a good side hustle at this
point, I should say please don't go join
the Tokuroyu because, well, it's illegal
first of all, and secondly, that's kind
of the whole trick. Tokuryu uses this
curated messaging around quick cash and
low commitment as a bait to recruit new
members. Sometimes specifically
targeting unsuspecting youth who are
looking for a quick buck online. These
are called yummy bto or dark part-time
job in Japan and they're almost like a
gateway drug for crimes. Once you're in,
it can become hard to leave. You might
get hooked by it or some groups might
use blackmail or threats to keep you in
the game. So, what started as a one-off
gig can turn into a full-blown trap. In
any case, the Tokuro are winning the
recruitment game employs to replace
Yakuza as the dominant force of
organized crimes in Japan. Tokyo's
arrest outpaced that of Yakuza last
year, for example, with more than 10,000
people arrested linked to the Tokyo and
only about 8,000 linked to the Yakuza.
Now, one of the things that make the Gen
Z problem so frustrating for the Yakuza
is that in a way, this isn't an enemy
that they can fight. The Yakuza can
fight the police. They can fight a rival
gang. But how do you fight an enemy that
simply doesn't care about you? How do
you fight a generation who are basically
ignoring you and effectively ghosting
you to death while you can't? In fact,
the only available strategy for the
Yakuza at this point seems to be if you
can't beat them, join them. For
instance, some Tokood groups are
suspected of sharing profits with the
Yakuza, suggesting that they might be
working together to some extent. There's
also one prominent Yakuza group that got
rid of their head office entirely and
the police doesn't know where they
relocated to. So, one of the theories is
that they went online completely seeking
to operate in a similar fashion as the
Tokuro. Now, this report is only from a
few days ago at the time I'm recording
this. So, no one knows what's really
happening yet. And the whole Tokuroyo
phenomenon is quite new in general. So,
it remains to be seen how it will all
play out in the end. In any case, at
this time, the Yakuza seems to begin to
take a back seat while the Tokuroyu are
slowly becoming the main driver of
organized crimes in Japan. And some
Yakuza group might even be proactively
reinventing themselves into Tokuryu in
order to operate better in the current
criminal landscape. Now, at the end of
the day, Yakuza and the Tokuroyu are
both criminal organizations. So, I might
not have too much empathy for them. Nor
am I trying to make you feel bad for the
Yakuza or any criminal organizations.
But there is a deeper point I'm trying
to make here with this story of crime.
Crime is an extreme expression of
society. As such, it could magnify
dynamics that are subtle and opaque in
daily life and make them more visible
and easier to observe. This tension
between the newer generation and
traditional values doesn't only exist in
the world of crime. It's everywhere. We
can see this at work, for example, where
Jenz's are challenging the traditional
Japanese salary man work culture. We can
also see this in dating where Jenz's are
going against the traditional model of
marriage and family. We can partly
observe this in the plummeting birth
rates across the world as well. So, it's
fair to say that Jenz's are not just
ghosting the Yakuza. Rather, they're
sort of doing this to everybody. They
ghost work, they ghost families. In a
way, they're ghosting the entire future
of humanity by not having kids. And
they're probably ghosting each other at
this point given the high rate of
loneliness in this generation. Now, I'm
joking with this ghosting analogy. I am
Gen Z, so I'm allowed to do this, I
think. But jokes aside, the reality of
each of these issues are much more
complex. working, dating, family, birth
rates. Each of these is its own rabbit
hole that I won't be able to fully
explore in this video, but I hope they
show the breadth of this generational
tension. I'm not in a hurry to make
moral judgment about this, though. And
I'm not calling them good or bad,
because generational tension is a human
constant. It's a tale as old as time.
It's quite common throughout human
history for the next generation to be a
little different from the older one. And
this has been one of the forces that
pushed cultures to change and evolve. So
it's not surprising that Gen Z's are
different from millennials. What is
perhaps surprising is the magnitude of
this difference at the rate at which it
happened. This is probably in part due
to how fast the world has changed. Most
Gen Z's were opted into a massive
psychological experiment at an early age
that they did not consent to. And most
of them grew up with instant access to
all of human knowledge all the time
through this cybernetic extension called
smartphones and curated by social media
algorithms. And this is only going to
accelerate for the next generation who
are currently growing up with generative
AIs. So I don't know how all this will
turn out in the end. We'll see I guess.
But I do hope that this analysis of the
world of crime has been a useful case
study with which to look at generational
tension in other aspects of life. I hope
it's helped you form a more nuanced
opinion. And if you've watched till this
point, I will be interested in your
opinions and reactions to all this as
well. So let me know in the comments.
And if you're interested in how this
generational tension play out in Japan's
war culture, I made this video exploring
that.